open ended question


1. 

What are the main tasks that autoencoders are used for ?


Autoencoder are used to generate data similar to the input data. The encoding block learns features and encodes them in a vector. This vector or latent representation can be decoded to recover data (an accumulation  of all features it learned during encoding). Autoencoders are typically used for generative tasks (like generating an image)


--


2. 

Suppose you want to train a classifier, and you have plenty of unlabeled training data but only a few thousand labeled instances. How can autoencoders help? How would you proceed?


Autoencoders can be used to generate pretrained encoding layers to classify unlabeled data.


Procedure:


1) Train autoencoder on ALL data

2) Create a classifier model with lower layers copied from autoencoder architecture. The model will be trained on ONLY labeled data.

3) Classify all data on the classifier model.


--


3. 

If an autoencoder perfectly reconstructs the inputs, is it necessarily a good autoencoder? How can you evaluate the performance of an autoencoder?


Perfectly reconstructing an autoencoder is not a good autoencoder. It will not  generalize well;  it will not learn unique, or subtle features about the data. 


Autoencoders can be evaluated by monitoring the total loss of each instance: total loss = reconstruction loss + regularization loss.


--

4. 

What are undercomplete and overcomplete autoencoders? What is the main risk of an excessively undercomplete autoencoder?


Overcomplete - codings larger than the inputs


Undercomplete - codings smaller than the inputs


An excessively undercomplete autoencoder is at risk is limiting its ability to learn necessary features  ( underfit the training data )


An excessively overcomplete autoencoder is at risk of overfitting the training data.


--


5. 

How to tie weights in a stacked encoder?  What is the point of doing so?


Encoder weights are copied to decoder in mirrored fashion. The has the effect of reducing overfitting


--


6. 

What is a generative model ? Can you name a type of generative autoencoder?


Generative model is a model that can generate close to real data samples from randomly generated codings. Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN) are an example of generative autoencoder



--

7.

What is GAN? Can you name a few tasks where GAN can shine?


GAN is defined as  Generative Adversarial Networks


Tasks better suited for GAN:


- generate realistic images


- recreate works of art ( like Picasso )


- generate music form artist


- redundancy ( if system losses data, a similar data sample can takes its place through a generative model)


- generate videos



--


8. 

What are the problem with training GANs?


 The parrying between the discriminator and generator. The 'generator' outputs may become less diverse.


 For instance, the generator may be better at creating counterfeit shoes.


 The discriminator gets obviously fooled by the craftsmanship of shoes. The discriminator sends gradients down further to encourage more of these 'real' items (i.e. shoes).


 The discriminator will eventually see more shoes from the generator as the generator pushes our more shoes  and forget how to discriminate against the other classes.


 This will occur with another class.
 
 
 This continued dance is an unstable system!


 This problem is mitigated by diversifying the generator dataset
